## Metabolic_thermal_performance_curves
This project is part of a larger project investigating the effects of high temperatures on juvenile red drum metabolism. This portion focuses on the aerobic metabolic data. It fits commonly used thermal performance curve models (linear, quadratic, Gaussian, modified Gaussian, and Weibull) to metabolic performance data. Aerobic scope is the performance metric used here. Aerobic scope is theoretically the total amount of aerobic metabolism available to use. It is found by subtracting the base metabolic needs from the maximum metabolic rate. 

## Project Objective
Find the best model to fit the data. After finding the best model, thermal range and critical temperatures can be estimated for juvenile red drum in the Charleston Harbor.

## Metabolic Methods Overview
All metabolic data has been taken using computerized intermittent flow respirometry. Base metabolic rate is measured overnight, and maximum metabolic rate is taken after exhaustive exercise. 

## Project Organization
Code is available in the R folder. It is in a markdown file as well as a script file. Figures generated in the code can be found in the figs folder. The code has lines to simulate data, so data is not currently provided with the code.

## Full Abstract
Temperature is a critical determinant in fish metabolism and can change the rate of metabolic processes such as growth, digestion, and locomotion. Aerobic scope measures the entirety of aerobic metabolism available for use in all metabolic processes and is linked with fish performance and habitat choice. At the upper thermal limit of aerobic scope, all aerobic metabolism is used to survive, and the fish cannot perform any additional functions. A common estuarine fish in South Carolina, red drum, Sciaenops ocellatus, is frequently exposed to elevated temperatures, and red drum may exhibit decreased aerobic scope due to temperatures found in its natural environment. This project will determine whether high summer temperatures cause a decline in juvenile red drum aerobic scope. Juvenile red drum will be randomly assigned to one of three temperature treatments: 27째C, 30째C, or 33째C. The lower temperatures mimic temperatures commonly observed in the Charleston Harbor estuary, and the highest temperature is approaching the upper lethal temperature of South Carolina juvenile red drum, 34.6째C. After red drum are held in the temperature treatments for two weeks, metabolic rates will be measured. Standard metabolic rate will be measured overnight after a 24-hour starvation period. Maximum metabolic rate will be measured after the fish is challenged with exhaustive swimming exercise. Aerobic scope will be calculated as maximum minus standard metabolic rate, and scopes will be compared across temperatures. A depressed aerobic scope in juvenile red drum at high temperatures could inhibit recovery from exhaustive activities or limit digestive ability. Avoidance of decreased aerobic metabolism may also shift habitat use away from foraging grounds or predation refugia within the estuary during the summer season.
